[00:00:00] Jordan B: I'd like to know, and everybody listening would like to know, I suppose, first of all, what what was the program? And then why did you submit it to a clinical trial? And how did you get scientists to participate in that? Well, you took that complexity and and made it equally complex. Yeah, thanks, sir. Thank you. I appreciate it. It was actually really simple. You know, I've been uh working with people. This is gonna be my forty-eighth year of beginning now, um, across the world. I have the privilege of

[00:00:29] Jordan B: Recognizing there's only so many patterns. While the the brain has infinite complexity, it's not completely complex in terms of the mind. And so um over the years I've developed a series of processes to help people kind of develop what is their true north for them, not for me, and shift their values so that they're naturally pulled in the direction of what they really want at this stage, as opposed to what their conditioning has to do with. And so, as you well know, uh we don't experience life, we experience the life we focus on.

[00:00:58] Jordan B: In every moment, what's wrong is always available, so is what's right. And it's not positive thinking, it's about intelligence. If you're in a lousy state, you don't treat people better, you don't perform better, you're obviously not happier. So what we teach people is how to shift their focus, how to determine what values at this stage of your life are the ones that are most important to you that will pull you towards what you want. I always look at motivation, and I and I don't like the word motivation, but people overuse it, so I might as well use it because I'm not a motivator, I'm a strategist.

[00:01:26] Jordan B: But I also believe in the power of inspiring people, obviously, and having high energy. But you know, there's two types of motivation. There's push motivation, as I'm sure you know. That's where you're using willpower and making yourself do it. And you know, Jordan, you have an enormous amount of willpower. My respect for you is through the roof, all that you've dealt with and all that you've done. And it's helped shaped who you are, because you haven't given up and move forward. But there is a limit to willpower. I got a lot of willpower too. So but there's no limit to pull motivation. Pull motivation is where it's something that

[00:01:53] Jordan B: You care about more than yourself, something that's a magnificent obsession, something where you're contributing. It could be your kids, it could your family, but all that ties to the aim of your values that move you forward. And so we have a six-day process I do called Date with Destiny. And by the way, if your viewers ever want to get a feel for it, uh there's a documentary on Netflix called Tony Robbins, I'm not your guru, because I'm not here to be your guru. Um, but it'll give you like an hour and forty-five minute walkthrough, and it's pretty dramatic. And the name of it again?

[00:02:21] Jordan B: Tony Robbins, I'm not your guru. It's on Netflix. And you see me deal with people that are that are suicidal and turning them around. And then you see us follow up four years later. So you see it last, because most people wouldn't think it lasts if you could make a change that quickly. So how does that relate to the study? Well, um, two professors, as I understand it, we were approached by Stanford, and they said two of our professors had come here. They were clinically depressed and they're off medication. And all they did was go to this six-day program. We don't understand it. Uh, do you have data on this? And I said, sure, I've got.

[00:02:50] Jordan B: Millions of testimonials. And so they said, no, no, no, scientific data. I said, no, that's not been my focus. My focus is just to get results for people. But if you want to do one, I'm open to it. What would you like to study? And they said, well, right now is the middle of COVID. And they said, you know, depression is through the roof, suicide's through the roof, overdoses are through the roof. I said, I know. And they said, uh, we'd love to test this non-pharmological approach to it that you have and see what it really produces, because this seems miraculous. And I said, Well, it's not miraculous, it's just rewiring the way in which people perceive their world. If I'm going to go

[00:03:21] Jordan B: Do the Dakar race where I'm gonna go uh, you know, nine thousand miles to the Sahara Desert, you can't take the car you're currently running and expect it, you're gonna you're gonna die in the desert. You need to have that car reengineered. So for example, the exhaust can get above the sand. Well, we help people re engineer and we don't tell them what to do. We show them how to re engineer themselves. So they have their own autonomy and ownership. And I said, um, but tell me something, if we're gonna study this, what do the meta studies show?

[00:03:46] Jordan B: And the meta studies show that they said that 60% of the people who come for treatment, whether it's drugs or therapy or both, uh, 60% make no improvement. That's the average. 40% improve overall. The average improvement is 50%. So I said, So they're half as depressed as they were. They said, Yeah, some people get well, but most people are on drugs for the rest of their lives. And I said, You can almost do that with a placebo. And the guy had a nervous laugh and he said, Well, yeah, maybe. I said, Well,

[00:04:12] Jordan B: I said, I'm sure it sounds like hubris, but I said, just based on history, I'm sure we'll do better than that. I said, what's the best study what of all psychiatry you've ever seen in terms of wiping out these symptoms? And at the time they said there was a study done at Johns Hopkins, you're probably familiar with it, five years ago, where for a month they gave people psilocybin, magic mushrooms, and cognitive therapy. And they said the results were the greatest in the history of psychiatry. At the end of six weeks, it was their evaluation.

[00:04:38] Jordan B: That group had 54% of the people had no symptoms whatsoever of depression. I said, Well, that's a great standard. I said, I'd like to see us beat that. I said, again, it doesn't sound uh sounds like Kubra's, it sounds like maybe arrogance. I'm not coming from that place. I just think our numbers will be significantly higher. But we'll see. You designed the program. So they designed it, and as you said, they had a separate group that was just like they did for Johns Hopkins, you know, test group that didn't have my work. They had gratitude journaling, they did various other things. And uh

[00:05:06] Jordan B: The results were beyond their imagination. At the end of six weeks, after just going through a seminar, no drugs, no one-on-one therapy, just the rewiring for themselves, 93% of them had no symptoms whatsoever. It's nothing like it has ever been done. And they published it in the journal of psychiatrists. Do you have any idea? Has there been any longer-term follow-up of There has been. Oh, there has. Yes, yeah. And seven percent of the people still improve, but they didn't completely eliminate their symptoms. But here's the best part 19% came in with suicidal ideation.

[00:05:35] Jordan B: Zero suicidal radiation afterwards, which is what I've seen over and over over the decades. So they followed up a year later and they found 52% increase in positive emotions, 71% decrease in negative emotions a year later. And now they've done additional studies. They just did a one-year study with 1,500 people. So you can appreciate this. It's like a biggest study you can imagine. 750 in each group. And this one is on engagement in business and in life, because

[00:06:01] Jordan B: Right now, since COVID, the engagement levels have gone through the floor. You're probably familiar with it. They have three measurements. One is, you know, are you engaged? And engagement equals EBITDA or equals profit in companies. You can see a direct relationship. Then there's those that are disengaged. That would be what people started calling quiet quitting, where they're doing the minimum they need to. And then there's actively disengaged, which is actually people who are angry and they're just trying to hurt the company when they stay. That's not good. That's definitely not good. And since COVID.

[00:06:30] Jordan B: The drop in engagement is the biggest drop in the history of any form of measurement around the world. In addition, the largest increase is an active disengagement. Yeah, well, people's trust was violated. That's right. They were angry. Yeah. And so uh they did a group and they they haven't published it, it'll come out shortly, but I can give you the broad strokes that's so excited about is they eliminated all of the disengagement that had had been d driven by four years of isolation in six days.

[00:06:58] Jordan B: And then the best part was without any more interaction with me every month, imagine for a year, they increased in their engagement. Oh, really? Because what's happened is now the hunger is awakened in them. They now have a sense of control over their own life and same authors? Uh different group. The some of the same authors, some additional group as well. UCLA is And that big a difference in group size. Yes. Because one of the criticisms of the study obviously was that it was a

[00:07:22] Jordan B: There was a small number of people. Well, clinical studies are very, very difficult to do. So it's very easy to criticize a study for having a small number, but it's very difficult to run a better study.

[00:07:38] Tony Robbins: Are you tired being held back by one size fits all healthcare? Of having your concerns dismissed or being denied that comprehensive lab work you need to truly understand your health? I want to tell you about Merrick Health, the premier health optimization platform that's revolutionizing how we approach wellness and longevity.

[00:07:53] Tony Robbins: What sets Merrick apart isn't just their cutting-edge diagnostic labs or concierge health coaching, it's their commitment to treating you as an individual. Their expert clinical team stays at the forefront of medical research, creates personalized, evidence-based protocols that evolve with you. Unlike other services that rely on cookie-cutter solutions, Merrick Health goes the extra mile. They consider your unique lifestyle, blood work, and goals to craft recommendations that actually work for you.

[00:08:16] Tony Robbins: Whether that's through lifestyle modifications, supplementation, or prescription treatments. And with a remarkable 4.9 out of five rating on Trustpilot, you know you're in great hands. The best part is you can get 10% off your order today. Just head to MerrickHealth.com and use code Peterson at checkout. That's MerrickHealth.com code Peterson for 10% off. Stop guessing and start optimizing your health today with MerrickHealth, because your best life starts with your best health.

[00:08:42] Jordan B: Right, right. They've also done a study where a separate one that they published in a different journal that I can get to you, which was about the teaching style. Cause what they wanted to figure out is how does this work. So I'll tell you what they uncovered. There's a separate group that have been working with them and had worked on measuring my body on stage, because I do immersion events. I think you know four days, 15, 20,000 people in a stadium, 12, 13 hours a day.

[00:09:07] Jordan B: And when COVID happened and they shut everything down, I wanted to still help people. So I built a studio because I kept every stadium in the world was shut down. And I started doing it with people in their homes. So the first thing they did is during those first three and a half years before COVID, they had been measuring me. So they had me wear this 75,000 device that measures everything. They take my saliva and my blood at every break. And they found a whole crazy set of statistics. Like, you know, I burn 11,300 calories on stage in a day. I didn't think that was possible.

[00:09:37] Jordan B: But consistently, that's my average. Uh chess masters, Jordan, I guess, burn about thirty-five hundred to four thousand not moving. And so before I even get on stage, I burn about thirty-five hundred. Um, I jump a thousand times. I'm just standing there, I'm going out the crowd, I'm running up, and I keep the stadium engaged. Most people

[00:09:53] Jordan B: Won't sit for a three hour. It's like watching a toddler play. Yeah. Well, I I'm serious about Well, I'm serious about that. Because you think about it, people spend three hundred million dollars on a movie and go past three hours and you lost everybody, right? And we have people from 193 countries, every country in the world. So let's say Australia, we start here at ten A.M. It's already midnight there. They go from midnight

[00:10:21] Jordan B: To one in the afternoon for four straight days and nights and we lose six percent of the people on average. It's mind boggling. We've figured out how to keep people engaged. So so it's compelling and it's long lasting. And here's the
